["If I Had A Heart" playing]
[drums beating]
-[laughter]
-[indistinct chattering]
[bird squawking]
[indistinct chatter]
[laughing]
[Ketill] Othere.
You have returned.
Welcome, welcome.
Welcome.
Othere.
[laughs]
Please, sit. Drink.
Othere.
Meet Ubbe,
the son of Ragnar Lothbrok.
He has come a long way
to meet you.
You are Othere.
This is my wife, Torvi.
Ubbe is especially interested
in your journeys
to the far west of here.
[scoffs]
It was such a long time ago.
Oh, please, please,
I would like to hear about it.
I would like to know about
this new land that you found.
[all murmuring]
Very well, then.
I was sailing west from here,
along the land,
when a storm
blew my ship off course.
When the storm had ended,
there was no more land.
And I did not know
where I was.
Days followed days.
I started running out
of food and water.
I began to give myself up
for dead.
But then...
Then one morning,
the sun rose behind me.
And I saw it,
I saw a new land.
The winds blew me
all day down the coastline.
The lands were lofty,
with many high mountains,
all so beautiful
and of a thousand shapes,
and filled with trees so tall,
it seemed that
they would touch
the sky itself.
And I saw
marvelous pine groves
and vast, fertile plains.
I tell you,
Ubbe, son of Ragnar,
this was indeed golden land.
[all murmuring]
Why did you not stop there?
The winter tides
were too strong
and I was swept away.
And in the morning, I found
myself back in the open ocean
again.
I was fortunate enough
to find a small island
with game and water,
and, at last, the currents
brought me back here.
But I have never forgot
what I did see.
You, you will sail with us.
You will try and find
this land again.
[chuckles softly]
Perhaps, if you think
I can be of some help.
To the golden lands!
[all] Golden lands!
And what of Floki, hmm?
Floki? I never met Floki.
Floki had disappeared
before Othere arrived
and sailed west.
It has been a long day.
I am tired.
[Ubbe] Thank you all
for the feast.
We're very happy to be here
in Iceland, at the edge
of the world.
-Sleep well.
-Good night.
He does not
need to know everything.
[panting]
[whimpers]
[drums beating]
[crowd chattering]
Queen Gunnhild.
Erik.
Just Erik.
I am so impressed by you.
Impressed? Why?
That you are not jealous,
that you allow this to happen.
[Gunnhild] Erik.
You saved my husband's life,
but you did not save mine.
You don't know me
well enough to pretend
to know my feelings.
They belong to me.
[Erik] I'm sorry,
Queen Gunnhild.
Forgive me.
[Gunnhild] You are young.
I wonder if you really know
the stories of the gods.
Of course I do.
Then you know the story
of Freyr.
[Ingrid] Yes,
she is the goddess
of fertility.
She lives in the hall
called Sessrumnir
and travels in a chariot
drawn by cats.
Yes, yes, yes.
Every child knows that.
The fact is, her necklace,
the Brisingamen,
was paid for by sex
with the dwarves who made it.
Loki accused her of having sex
with every single one
of the elves
in the Aesir.
And she shares half of those
slain in battle with Odin.
But when her own husband
is away, she weeps.
But not watery tears, Ingrid.
Tears of gold.
Real treasure.
If you want to go to her,
you should go.
This is your wedding night.
She will be expecting you.
I am with child,
and I am married to a demigod.
As are you.
Don't talk to me about
ridiculous things,
about human jealousies,
the trivial and repeated
concerns of humankind.
I thought you were above them.
I thought
you were a free spirit.
Now, you are free.
Go and marry my husband,
with my blessing.
I didn't want to hurt you.
I wasn't sure.
No, I'm afraid that has been
your failing.
But now, be sure.
You made a decision.
Live with it.
Believe in it. Otherwise,
how can I ever respect you?
[kisses]
[sighs]
[sighs softly]
[breathing deeply]
[Bjorn] I know King Harald
will come for me.
If he wants to be king
of all Norway,
then he must eliminate me,
in which case we need
to redouble our patrol
in the fjord.
And you must lead them.
Me?
I trust you because you
need to keep me alive
so you can stay alive.
[gasps]
[cries]
Surely this is taking
a long time.
What is it?
[panting]
What is the problem?
The baby is lying
in the wrong position.
Torvi cannot deliver it
naturally.
[screaming, crying]
I have come to pray
for the woman and child.
[Torvi groaning]
[indistinct praying]
What is that for?
I may have to cut her stomach
to take out the baby.
Does that mean she will die?
[sobbing loudly]
[exclaims]
[cries]
Not yet.
Sweet darling.
[screams]
[continues praying]
Yes, it's coming, now.
All right.
[Amma] Now, you start.
[Torvi gasping]
I can see the head!
[Torvi screaming]
Once more, yes!
Keep going, keep going,
keep going, yes!
Yes, it's here!
[baby crying]
[laughs]
[man shouting at distance]
[indistinct shouting]
Who are these people?
I don't know.
But they're not Viking.
And it's not one
of King Harald's ships.
They are scouts.
[man] But where from?
[speaking Russian]
[men shouting]
[screams]
[grunting]
[yelling]
[both grunting]
[in native tongue]
[indistinct shouting]
You look like shit.
I feel like it.
What are you wearing?
[chuckles]
[man shouting indistinctly]
Why do you keep returning?
Hmm?
Why do you hunt me so?
I don't understand.
But I am happy to see you.
Truly happy to see you.
[sighs]
Who are these people?
[man] Rus, the same people
we met in Kiev.
The same people that Ivar
is staying with.
[Bjorn sighs]
What does it mean?
Why did they come
and raid here?
[Bjorn] They were not raiding.
They were scouting.
By probing our defenses.
They plan
to invade our country.
I've heard stories of Rus.
They are a vast kingdom,
rich in resources.
Huge armies.
Perhaps they mean to invade
all of Scandinavia.
Hmm.
With Ivar's help
and knowledge.
How pleased he must be
to think he is returning
in triumph.
We cannot possibly resist
invasion from such
a powerful enemy.
And yet we must resist!
They won't move
their armies in the winter.
We have until spring
to decide what to do.
In your heart,
you know what you have to do.
Harald is king of all Norway.
You have to reach out to him,
offering peace
and a united front.
You say that
because of your history.
What do you mean?
I've been told King Harald
asked for your hand.
[Erik] With respect,
what other fight can there be?
Kattegat cannot
stand against Rus.
You're right.
And Gunnhild is correct.
We must make common cause
with King Harald.
I charge you to leave urgently
to King Harald's kingdom.
Perhaps he will see sense
and do away
with his own vanity.
[exhales]
What do the Rus believe in?
They're Christians.
[scoffs]
They believe
in the Christian god.
Then, we are not only
fighting for ourselves,
but for our gods!
And with Odin's help,
we must succeed.
However impossible the task.
[Ubbe] I want us all to drink
to the birth of our son.
We have decided to name him
Ragnar, after his grandfather.
[laughs]
Hail, Ragnar!
Long live Ragnar.
-Skol.
-[all] Skol!
I want to thank all of you
for your help.
And I want to thank you,
Othere.
For your prayers
for my wife and for my son.
But since I lived in England,
I could not help
but recall them.
They were Christian prayers
to a Christian god.
[chuckles]
I solicited only our gods.
After all, why should
I do otherwise?
I don't know. You tell me.
[inhales softly]
I am...
Or rather, I was,
a long time ago,
a monk living in England.
My name then was Athelstan.
[laughs]
Athelstan?
Hmm.
[Ubbe laughs]
I was sent to a seminary
in Rome.
They chose to send me out
into the world
as a missionary,
to take the word of God
to those who had
never heard it.
I still remember my sea voyage
to Scandinavia.
The local people discovering
my purpose nearly killed me,
and chased me away.
And, so, onwards,
to other places,
having failed
at being a missionary.
I had learned some Norse
and I had met
a Danish wanderer
by the name of Othere.
He spoke to me of his travels,
of the wondrous sights he had
seen and the miracles
he had witnessed
along the way.
But he was sick and dying.
[grunting]
I buried him.
And I took his name.
[fire crackling]
Then, I came here,
to this young settlement.
Reborn.
It was then
I determined
to set sail again,
and it was
on this subsequent voyage
that I glimpsed
the golden land.
[Othere sighs]
But as you know,
I returned, defeated,
resigned to live
this false identity
for the rest of my days.
You lied to everyone here.
And you have been
living a lie ever since.
You are a Christian.
You are an enemy of our gods.
So you deserve to die.
It's not true.
I always knew that Othere
was not what he claimed,
but in our desperate situation,
I accepted everyone
-who offered us no harm--
-Then you were wrong.
Othere may have offered
no physical threat,
but his ideas, his beliefs,
his lies!
They are the real threat.
To all of us.
To our children.
Do you not understand?
You must be sacrificed
to our gods.
And then, beloved, we would
never find the golden land.
Without Othere, we have
no chance. We might
as well give up now.
Here's the cross
you used to wear.
How could you have forgotten?
You were baptized
as a Christian.
You prayed aloud
to the Christian god.
Who are you?
My name is Erik.
I come as emissary
from King Bjorn.
Here is his ring to prove it.
[Harald] Very well.
And why has
King Bjorn sent you?
He wants to make an alliance.
[scoffs]
An alliance?
I don't need an alliance
with Bjorn.
He's already my vassal,
and I am his king and overlord.
Perhaps he has forgotten.
I don't think you understand.
-You don't know the enemy we--
-[Harald] On the contrary!
I know everything.
I know you, forest Skogarmaor.
An outlaw.
You came to my kingdom before.
You had a secret trade
in slaves.
And you have a history
of violence.
And murder.
You got into a fight here
and you killed
several of my men.
[clicks tongue]
Now, everyone knows that
a Skogarmaor, if he comes in
from the forest,
can be killed with impunity.
[laughs]
Ah.
Therefore, you will be
executed in the morning.
At my pleasure.
[grunts]
[Harald] Take him away.
Chain him up.
Pour cold water over him
all night,
so he won't have a moment
to forget his fate.
No! No, you need to listen.
Listen to me!
We're all in danger.
[bell tolling]
Our brother has poisoned
your mind,
convincing you that
I was your enemy.
I am not your enemy.
Get well, get strong.
We shall unleash our forces
against our brothers.
They will bear witness
to our triumph.
Hmm?
[chuckles]
[grunts]
I killed her, Ivar.
It was me, not you.
Me.
I killed her,
and now she's dead.
Who?
[Hvitserk] You know who.
Lagertha.
The bitch.
You thought
it was your fate.
Hmm.
It was mine, Ivar.
Mine.
I killed her.
[laughs]
[chuckles]
[Ubbe] What do you want?
[Othere] I have brought
you something.
It's a wedding ring. So what?
[Othere]
It's not just a wedding ring.
It's Floki's wedding ring.
Why do you have
Floki's wedding ring?
I did meet Floki.
I knew Floki.
Did Floki know that
you are a Christian?
Yes, I'm sure.
So, what happened here?
Why did Floki just disappear?
Hmm?
I know something terrible
must have happened...
Was it Ketill? What did he do?
Floki left because he had
no hope left for humanity.
He gave you his ring?
It was his most precious
possession.
But he no longer wanted it.
He left this place naked.
I loved Floki.
I've told you the truth.
I beg you to take me with you
on the voyage to find
the golden land.
It means everything to me.
Is your name really Athelstan?
You have no idea
what that name means to me.
What do you want,
you old fool?
I almost forgot you existed.
You once told me
the only reason
you kept me alive
is because one day
I might say something wise
for an old fool.
Hmm.
So, I'm telling you now.
Listen to that man.
Who cares
if he is a Skogarmaor?
We are all Skogarmaors.
We all came from the forest.
Execute him if you like,
but, first, listen,
listen to what he has to say.
He risked his life
to return here.
Are you too proud to ask why?
[Erik] Same symbols,
same people.
These are the Rus.
And you have to understand
how powerful they are
and what a threat they pose.
Even so,
it irks and irritates me
that I have to listen
to a criminal like you.
[ax clatters]
Or a failed king like Bjorn.
My greatest ambition,
the purpose of my life,
was to become king
of all Norway.
And now
that I have achieved it,
I don't know why...
Why must I be dragged down,
forced to rely
on unpredictable allies
who have already shown to be
weak and unreliable.
[clicks tongue]
Why does it have
to be like this?
Hmm?
In my dreams,
it was never like this.
Words cannot wish this away.
[thuds]
The Rus are coming.
[sighs heavily]
Very well, I agree.
But only if Bjorn's forces,
his warriors,
and his shield-maidens
come to me,
to protect the capital
and not Kattegat,
and then I agree.
We can be allies. Huh?
Why not? Why not?
I am sure
that Bjorn will agree.
-After all, they're most
likely to--
-We have agreed.
Send word to Bjorn
to move his forces here.
And I must send word
to all my vassal kings.
It seems like we need
all their help, after all.
[Ivar] Prince Oleg.
Princess Katia.
Your Highnesses.
Allow me to present to you
my brother, Hvitserk.
Just lately
risen from the dead.
Your Highness.
[Oleg] Another son
of Ragnar Lothbrok.
You are welcome.
You arrive
in interesting times.
So I understand.
My brother has told me
that you intend to attack
our homeland.
Hmm.
It was once my homeland.
I'm only reclaiming the past.
I trust you will be happy
to join King Ivar and myself
in this great undertaking.
[chuckles]
I have nowhere else to go.
[all laugh]
I'm at your service,
Prince Oleg.
I, too, need to reclaim
my own past.
The prince and I
are so happy to have you
at our court, Hvitserk.
Ivar has spoken
a lot about you.
When you were children,
when you jumped ship.
He told me that you always
believed you were fated
to be together,
however many times
fate itself seemed to have
pulled you apart.
I find myself
that fate works
in mysterious ways.
Our army's assembling.
Tonight, you will watch
some of it
parade past the palace.
It should be
an interesting experience.
[Ivar] So?
So?
What do you think?
-About Oleg?
-No, not about Oleg,
about his wife.
I thought she was attractive,
rather provocative.
Nothing else?
No. What else?
She didn't remind you
of anyone?
You saw her.
You know who she is.
-I do?
-Of course you do, brother.
She's Freydis.
Your wife?
Freydis is dead, Ivar.
I saw her body--
Yes, yes, yes.
I know I killed her.
But now she's come back,
and I do not know how.
But it is her.
She is identical.
You're still crazy, Ivar.
[man] Ivar.
Prince Dir
sends you greetings.
He knows your brother
has joined you.
He wishes you all success
in your campaign.
But afterwards, he wants you
to join him in the overthrow
of Prince Oleg.
And the rescue
of Prince Igor from slavery.
If you still
agree to this plan,
simply nod your head.
Good.
You know how much
Prince Dir loves you.
[drums beating]
[horses neighing]
[indistinct shouting]
[man shouting in Russian]
[shouting continues]
[horses neighing]
Who can resist such an army?
Nobody.
Not King Harald,
not Bjorn Ironside.
They are like children.
They and their gods
will be destroyed.
This, my good friends,
is the end of paganism.
The end of the pagan gods.
[music playing]